how to measure SEO Effectiveness do you
think Google rankings are the end-all
be-all for measuring success with your
SEO strategy think again now don't get
me wrong it is an important metric on
where you rank because after all only 25
of users go to the second page of Google
when it comes to search results even
more disappointing 90 of pages receive
zero organic traffic so yeah being on
the front of Google's page is super
important it's the best real estate that
you can get in my opinion and I'm not a
realtor though but it's not the end-all
be-all if you double triple up your
Google traffic and you don't generate
any more revenue does it really matter
no you're just paying more expenses on
your server costs so what are the
metrics that you should be tracking well
the first one is organic traffic and the
reason I say track your organic traffic
is it'll tell you how you're doing with
algorithm updates see Google is making
thousands of algorithm changes per year
they usually do around three core
updates per year you want to know if
you're doing better over time or worse
so tracking your organic traffic is
telling you is your team doing better or
worse and that's an easy metric that you
can do in Google search console or you
can do it in Google analytics and you
actually see that traffic over time so
are you going up quarter over quarter or
down now keep in mind there is some
seasonality and some keywords so keep
that in mind and you may have to track
year over year the second metric that I
want you to track is serp visibility how
do you know that your SEO is improving
in the early days see with serp
visibility this shows you and you can
see the state in Google search console
are people seeing your listing you're
ranking at the bottom of page one or
page two yes some people are seeing it
you're just not getting as many clicks
and it takes a long time to get up to
the top spot so serp visibility and if
that number keeps going up it means that
you're continually ranking higher and
higher over time in Google metric number
three number of backlinks now the more
people that link to you naturally
the better your content is it means
people like your product your service
your content the stuff that you're
putting out there 94 of content on the
internet never gets backlinks and when
it comes to SEO a lot of companies
believe that this is the hardest part in
fact it's so hard that sixty percent of
businesses Outsource their link building
strategy to an SEO expert if you need
help with your link building check out
my Ad Agency NP digital now there's also
reciprocal backlinking which means I
link to you link back avoid that it's
not good it doesn't help with the
ranking that's just gaming the system
and ahref study found that 43.7 of top
ranking pages in Google contain
reciprocal links now a great way to
boost your backlinks is to create longer
content not only does longer content
often rank better on Google but it also
receives on average
77.2 percent more backlinks than shorter
articles now this doesn't mean that all
your content should be long when it
makes sense for it to be long it should
be long but if it's an article on how to
tie a tie you don't want to make it long
it's just making it confusing people
just want to see some images or video on
how to tie a tie the fourth metric I
want you to track is domain Authority
the higher your Authority the means the
more credible you are and typically the
higher you're going to rank now this is
a metric from Moz it's a score from 1 to
100 typically the higher the ranking or
the number the better off you're going
to rank but you don't want to end up
doing it where you're just focusing on
that as an end-all deal it's just a
general rule of thumb because it's not
Google's metric it's moz's metric metric
number five and this is the most
important metric conversions and revenue
look Google analytics can track how much
revenue you're generating from SEO it
doesn't matter how much traffic you get
at the end because if it doesn't convert
into Dollars something's wrong you're in
the wrong type of traffic this is why
keyword research is super important at
the beginning this is why you want to
use tools like uber says because they'll
tell you what keywords are popular and
have a high cost per click if you're
wondering why cost per click is
important typically if someone's willing
to pay more for a key word in Google as
it means that keyword usually drives
more sales so you want to go after the
keywords that are related to your space
get searched a lot have low competition
and have a high cost per click and Uber
says we'll show you that and you can
also use tools like answer the public to
see what keywords are booming and
becoming popular right now and exploding
so that way you know what to Target in
the short run that your competition
hasn't figured out about yet now if you
need help with your SEO tracking we have
a whole analytics team at NP digital
where we can help you with this if you
enjoyed the video like it share it have
any questions leave a comment below I'm
here to help appreciate your time